This empowerment, and before I give the empowerment, is part of the lineage, or part of the
ceremony, that gives some introductions, even though you already might know that, but I am going to
give you the introduction.
Now, we are ready, again, to visit the involvement, as always, to re-spend and re-activate our
motivations. Because we have motivations, there are so many different motivations, but some of the
motivations that line up according to the teachings, according to the practices, that is what we
have to activate.
In this case, of the millions of the motivations, or the consumption of food, we bring up something
that is important and beneficial to ourselves, and it will bring the power of our practice in
meditation.
So therefore, motivation is so important, and which is, again, any of you already heard so many
times, and I say it mostly every day, so every time I'm talking to you every day.
So, you know already, I'm going to repeat that again, and obviously you're not bored with that.
But he's talking again there, again there. So, that is joy and appreciation, and it's good, good
stuff, really good.
We have joy and appreciation, I think our life is a little more meaningful, more rich, more rich
there.
And then, together with that, we devote each other. That is so, again, important, is the foundation
, central column of our practice in meditation,
of the generally the Buddha teaching, I think a little bit Mahayana and the Vedayana teaching.
So, thank you. Today I'm going to receive empowerment, in order to benefit all living beings, I'd
like to get enlightenment within this lifetime.
Part of the skillful means of the Vedayana teaching, I'd like to act like my enlightenment within
this lifetime, and I'd like, through that, I'm going to benefit for every living being.
And really, when the intention is told, even in short time, it is a dharma, it is a practice.
Actually, it is some tremendous hidden power from our roots of the potentials.
We bring up that, which is really wonderful.
And then, together with this involvement, is the Vedayana teaching, and the skillful means of
teaching that the Buddha taught.
The Vedic teacher, Buddha, taught. So, again, seeing everything as a vedalas, vedala of the virupa-
masambha.
The whole universe and everything as a vedala of the virupa-masambha, all included our forms,
and all sources at times are the speaking vedala of the virupa-masambha and all the mind, our mind,
everyone's mind, and the space it is.
Vedala of the virupa-masambha's wisdom, that is absolutely virupa-masambha is our innate nature,
your innate nature.
We are expanding. We are letting that radiary, you call it, to every, every direction, subject and
object.
Those are known as the activated motivations.
With that motivation, and then we now go to the introduction of these teachings.
This teaching, again, is taught by the gracious, kind, compassion, skillful means teacher, the
Buddha Shatyamuni,
who came two thousand, about six hundred years ago, or some chronologist, even before, more than
that.
But what you are the standard kind of time, everyone says is about two thousand, six hundred years
ago.
This gracious teacher, Buddha, gave from age thirty-five, under age eighty-one, the variety of
teachings,
that well, everyone has opportunity to discover their innate nature.
Buddha's teaching is not teaching, that's something that you have to go somewhere, to be something,
different beings.
Buddha's teaching is to bring our innate nature, to discover our own nature.
Buddha's nature is open, says, "Nature is right in our heart center, right with our mind, to
discover that nature."
And Buddha gave variety of teachings, according to readiness, capabilities of the individuals, he
gave the teachings.
So, all teachings are known as the nayana teachings, different levels of teachings.
These levels are not just designed level, but it is when you are advancing, then you are reaching,
you discover another dimension of the quality of the richness of our nature.
When you are more advanced, you discover more and more, and Buddha is kind of matching up, catching
up with our levels,
and our duties, and our capabilities, and there is a teaching to articulate that to the correct
path,
so that we are not just fell down on ditch, ditch or the ditch holes, really to bring up that.
And all is the same goal, to removing our obscurations, negative emotions, bring more joy,
evocation, love and compassion, and openness, calmness, peacefulness.
Then, see, really, what we are talking three mandalas, when you really got good relaxation,
it is not just the talking and the conceptual level, but you really see everything as three mandala
states.
Whether poem, whether song, or whether mind, or mandala of the poem,
poem mandala, Buddha mandala, and the song of the speech mandalas, and what is the mind mandala,
that really says that.
So then, that is what the Buddha gives a lot of teaching.
And then, Parego, the very inner teaching, is known as the skillful means of teaching.
Generally, the Buddha's teaching is, teaching is based on the compassion and wisdom combined
together.
But the very inner teaching has more skillful means of teaching.
Teaching, so that skillful means what? It is easy and quick to reach enlightenment or to discover
our inner nature,
to discover our own true beings, or enlightenment, called beings,
the wakefulness of the quality of the enlightenment that really works instantly.
So all teaching is designed with that.
And the very inner is so, the quality of teaching is so powerful.
Powerful. If you have the courage and commitment and confidence and joyful effort to the virtues,
if you have that, we can reach enlightenment.
Really, within this life, even if we didn't get enlightenment, we wouldn't make the difference,
truly the difference.
That is really true. Even if we practice meditation, for example, for one hour,
for quite a bit good with devotion and joy and everything, concentrated,
after one hour, we see some kind of like, let it sizzle and something a little bit slightly
different.
Really, we see. Then again, of course, just with our midst of the duality and emotion,
happy, dependent, you kind of dreamt up. Again, call it up. Call it up.
But that is, we have to do on and on practice.
Therefore, also here is commonly saying, the practice makes perfect.
Practice makes the brains to be perfect, gradually, slowly.
But our nature is pure. Our nature is beautiful.
Our nature is enlightened according to the teaching.
So really, with a brain, getting closer and closer,
just call it full bloom of the reality of the true nature of the enlightenment as it is,
as the really many practitioners and witnesses.
So among that, today, there are so many skill means of teaching in the medallana.
But among that, today is empowerment.
Empowerment is one of the very powerful skill means of teaching.
Again, I talk this little bit with this song, very little bit, very introduction of the empowerment
.
But also, first, I talk a little bit about the verphema sambhav.
Today, you'll see with the empowerment of verphema sambhav.
And then again, who taught these teachings?
Already said and already know that a little bit.
But Buddha taught these teachings.
Right, the teacher, Buddha taught many different levels of teaching.
Particularly, this very inner teaching, what we do for the following is the inner tandoor teaching.
Inner tandoor has three tantras, Mahayoga Tantra, Anu-Yoga Tantra, Ati-Yoga Tantra.
And this teaching, today what we are going to offer in empowerment,
is the combination of the three tantras.
Three inner tantra, Mahayoga, Anu-Yoga, and Ati-Yoga teachings.
All that combined, targeted, and then as practices.
So that is really what it is.
And then, this teaching is, of course, continued in India.
And then it ended in many different countries.
And then it came to Tibet at centuries.
By the great master of verphema sambhav.
And then, great master of chandala chadha.
By the invitation or the courage and the commitment of the characters of Devti.
He invited those great masters.
Three of them come together and astounded, to be the Buddhism.
Like what we call the mini-Buddhism is poor body of the Buddhism.
From the foundation schools of the Buddhism teaching,
such as Theravada or the Sarvat schools, all the way to the Ati-Yoga.
The whole body of the Buddhism really came to Tibet.
And not just came the literature aspect, but the realization also came.
Because they practiced, they made it, actually the realization.
Not just that intellectual level.
As a stimulation for the brain. It's not just that.
Really, they practiced and meditated.
And they become a teaching themselves.
And those are then known as the 25 disciples from the European sambhav
and the great master of ajali chandala chadha and so forth.
From that starting point.
And all those great masters of all the schools of the way of Buddhism
maintained this great teaching.
Teaching with starting, contemplating, and practicing.
Covered with humble symbol, drawn to the earth,
and discovered in the light from the heart,
and shining that to the other way.
Really, always guided that.
That is what really the teaching is.
So came to Tibet.
And particularly this involvement, in which it came,
by this lineage, such a high light by the great master,
Guru Bhema Sambhavas.
He gave first time to nine students in the cave of the Samyam monastery,
on the mountain of the Samyam monastery.
So Samyam chief of cave.
Guru Bhema Sambhavas did not give this teaching in the palace,
not in the public places.
He gave in the hermitage, cave, nine students.
Those first nine students who received the teaching,
they're named as heart, nine heart students.
That included Kritosundehe himself.
That received.
So that's how the empowerment is continued.
And then this is continued.
Then, these teachings are, according in my school,
that teaching is continued, carried by two lineage.
Two major lineage.
Those are known as kama and dharma.
Whenever you know kama.
Kama is an oral transmission lineage
that started from the Buddha and the Guru Bhema Sambhavas,
or particularly those great masters.
And then in the Tibetan, all the masters continued
as oral transmission and instruction,
and with instruction that continued carried,
and that's called kama.
In the Tibetan world, kama, oral, that.
And dharma means hidden and rediscovered lineage.
Hidden by who?
Majority of the hermitages are hidden by,
by the Guru Bhema Sambhavas,
toghed with the great wisdom raqini,
female enlightened beings,
known as Yishinsoja.
They've all hidden so many teachings,
so many treasures.
I mean, treasures such as ritual objects,
such as these bells and the dorjis, dhammarus,
parts of the belongings of the Guru Bhema Sambhavas himself,
Yishinsoja, kintasong deity,
or even the Buddhas and the great masters from India,
those parts of the belonging, they had that,
and hidden that for the thinking of the future generations,
along with the teachings itself.
So many teachings.
Those all modern teachings are related with the inner centers.
Mahayoga Tantra, Anupayoga Tantra,
and Adiyoga Tantra, discovered continually.
And one after another great designated master,
the revealers, came,
came from around eleven centuries until now.
So many great masters, really came, authentic masters, came.
Those are known as the thetongs, many of you know, discovered.
One after another, those great teachings,
those ritual objects, those great traits,
as object of venerations.
Those, they take that, that much.
Ah, oh, mainly is it, can't really,
hidden those teachings represented,
particularly Buddhas or the enlightenment.
Poem, enlightenment, the speech, enlightenment minds.
Poem represented such as the statues,
many different variety of statues of Buddha,
Gurupan Masambhav himself, all various yoginis,
various dharas.
So, for the statue, so many.
Those mainly represented as,
what's the body of the Buddhas, object of venerations.
Those are the personal belongings of Gurupan Masambhav,
all other great masters, all other different dakini rams,
all the slushy rams, all those slushy sacred objects,
and they hidden that.
And the speaker represented of all the Buddhas hidden,
these teachings, there's so many teachings.
One after another, those are all.
All is connected to the three, mostly three, and others.
Mahayoga, Anoyoga, Adiyogi.
And those are also more emphasized,
skillful means aspect of teaching.
Muslim means aspect of teaching.
Union of the skillful means the Muslim aspect of teaching.
It's really variety of teachings in it,
discovered one after another, those teachings.
And that is continually carried out now, that lineage.
And particularly today,
why I'm offering you the involvement,
whenever you all know, Guru Vida Dara.
This Guru Vida Dara is a Themmah teaching
of the great Thetung Thaksamunga,
who came around 17th century, or around that time.
17th or 18th century, around that time he came.
He was the emanation of the Nooki Sanghi Ishi.
And Nooki Sanghi Ishi is headed back to the 8th century,
one of the half-disciple of the work of Mahasamma.
Parigola Nooki Sanghi Ishi was the Yogi,
or the Maha Siddha of the Mejushiri and the Yama Thaksa.
They were very famous.
So he was so famous.
He was a nappa, lived practicing.
Very highly achieved in life, the Yogi beings and scholars.
He was a disciple of Guru Khenmasambhava
and Maha Siddha Shanda Rakhtab, as well as others.
And he practiced.
Nooki Sanghi Ishi become also one of the principal lineage holder
of the Nookman Kamas.
Always the Nookama said that how the Nookama continued.
For the course of the course came from the great masters
such as Gurbia Mahasambhava
and Master Shanda Rakhtab and Bhagavan Mataji.
But then who hold those teachings?
For his teachings, sorry, there was something here.
That would be a part of it.
And what was his name?
So most of these famous masters known as Yang Jana Kumar, very famous.
Yang Jana Kumar, when he showed the realization of this,
had contrast in it, made history.
Those great masters had contrast in front of Gurbia Mahasambhava,
Ajayi Shanda Rakhtab and Bhagavan Mataji.
So they showed what the achievement, the science.
And Jana Kumar put the finger or the dagger on the rock
and immediately spring water came, only the water came.
So that was his power.
Power in the teaching always said Jana Kumar discovered the nectar
from the rocky mountains, discovered that.
So that is Jana Kumar.
He was also one of the heart, nine hearts like students
and particularly he is really known as the actualized,
the quality of the enlightenment.
All the quality of enlightenment, such as Vaidya Hirugo or Yanda Hirugo's teachings.
He is the master of the Yanda Hirugo among the head Hirugo's, head Hirugo's, among the head Hirugo
's.
And then that teaching, the river of that teaching came to the Kama teaching
then transferred to the Nubji Sanyishi.
So Nubji Sanyishi become the second Kama lineage
or the entire teaching of the Kama lineage order.
Along with it he was, Nubji Sanyishi was the partner of the Anu-Yoga teachings, Nubji Sanyishi.
Nubji Sanyishi bordered really according to the teaching,
he stored, then born this Anu-Yoga teaching to Tibet.
He went and traveled to all over India and many other part of the country,
neighboring country and received Anu-Yoga teaching and brought back to Tibet.
So he was the partner of the Anu-Yoga teachings.
So Nubji Sanyishi, also when they had contest of that,
contest of their realization to show sign externally what he did.
He threw this quote, he put the wooden dagger, dagger on solid rocks.
Rocks, that is already known that he put there.
So that's the word sign.
And Nubji Sanyishi emanated so many great masters of scholars,
masters who uphold Buddha teaching by meditating and practicing
and through literature teaching, so many great scholars emanated
as well as many thetums.
So among that, one of the great emanation of thetum was Thasun Numba.
So Thasun Numba is a renowned emanation of the Nubji Sanyishi.
And this teaching is very rooted in where I was born,
in eastern Tibet known as Dokho regions.
There is a monastery, also known as the Gucci monastery,
who practiced this Thasun Numba lineage teachings,
practiced one of the relief principles, or kind of center,
lineage holders of this Thasun Numba teachings.
And when I was young, I also received, kind of naturally,
I was connected to that teaching because the parents,
parents said, like, their kindness,
and then I had the opportunity to receive so many Thasun Numba teachings.
When I was young, young at that time,
also there is a well-known lineage holder of this Thasun Numba lineage
known as Lama Nima, or Khada Lama Nima.
So from him, I received entire Thasun Numba teachings,
transmission, involvement, and transmission,
along with the Kati body chairman.
And then, after that, also I received this teaching
of the Thasun Numba teachings,
about this involvement many times from the Kati body chairman.
And then also in 1882, I think, I believe.
No, not '82, '84.
'84, and Thasun Numba, all the Thasun Numba,
the Kati body chairman had a big effort
of trying to gather all the Thasun Numba,
teaching that Thasun Numba what we can find.
And he probably had about 11 of them, all of them.
Nine of them ever connected to that.
And that was not just only Thasun Numba teachings.
Thasun Numba was more than that teaching,
but he was able to connect with that teaching.
And then, so at that time,
we had a whole copy of that in New York City,
where his own Dunyur Muja Center,
Yixin Yempo, where we stayed and served
as a resident teacher, there for quite a few years,
or many years each other, stayed there.
At that time, Kati body chairman
brought all the texts to his own Dunyur Muja,
asked to give the empowerment of the text empowerment,
all the empowerment of book empowerment, text empowerment.
That is very popular in the community,
because since his own Dunyur Muja
is the region of the Merpe and Masambhava,
and therefore, he also hold the Thasun Numba lineage to him.
So therefore, Kati body chairman
asked him, "Please give us empowerment,
this text empowerment."
Of course, he can give all, everything,
it takes a long time.
And his own Dunyur Muja was very,
very kind of excitedly accepted.
"Yes, I will do."
Really, he said that.
And then, we both stayed in front of that text,
and then we received that.
Also, blessings from his own Dunyur Muja.
So this is all what...
What is the history of the lineage?
So I also practice these teachings.
So that's really, in that way,
I'm offering you the empowerment.
Now, I talk really about the empowerment.